---
layout: post
title: Why You Should Use the Boost Software License
hidden: true
---

Because it doesn't require attribution for binaries.

All popular licenses -- MIT, Apache, BSD -- contain language similar
to the following:

> The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
> included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

And, in fact, so does the Boost license:

> The copyright notices in the Software and this entire statement, including
> the above license grant, this restriction and the following disclaimer,
> must be included in all copies of the Software, in whole or in part, and
> all derivative works of the Software

except it continues with

> unless such copies or derivative works are solely in the form of
> machine-executable object code generated by a source language processor.

and the others contain no such exemption.

For the purposes of copyright law, when you compile code, the resulting
object code, library code or executable program is considered _a derived
work_. That is, the original license terms still apply to it as they would
have applied to a copy of the source code, processed in some other way
(reformatted, for instance.)

What this means is that the requirement to include the copyright notice
still applies. This, in practice, is met by either including the copyright
notice in the documentation, having a dialog box or a `--license` command
line option that displays the license, or sometimes both (lawyers like to
be on the safe side.)

If you're writing an open source C++ library, it's much more convenient for
your users if you don't impose this attribution requirement for binaries.
You still want it to apply to copies in source code form, just not to
compiled code.

This is what the
[Boost Software License](https://www.boost.org/LICENSE_1_0.txt) was created
to enable, and this is why you should use it for your open source libraries.

The Boost Software License is not just for Boost libraries. Everyone can,
and should, use it.

It's true that it's a requirement to get your code in Boost, but that's not
the only benefit. It can also get your code in standard library
implementations. Microsoft's STL, for example, is now
[open source on Github](https://github.com/microsoft/STL), but since
Microsoft's customers cannot abide to a binary attribution clause, code
inside the STL can only use a license that doesn't impose one. As explained
by Stephan T. Lavavej in [this Reddit comment](https://www.reddit.com/r/cpp/comments/gr18ig/faster_integer_parsing/frxbit4/),
the two licenses that meet this requirement are the Boost Software License and the
[Apache 2.0 License with LLVM Exception](https://llvm.org/foundation/relicensing/LICENSE.txt).
